README.md, before:

# Zepyhr SPi flash driver for EN25QH32B-104HIP2C flash chip

This repo is an example of flash driver that uses public Zephyr flash API.
This example has been tested only on Telespor V3.2 board that has NRF9160 microcontroller.
In order to make this work on a different platform overlay file needs to be added/changed.


## Compiling and running the main.c file

To compile and run the code run below command from the root directory of the project:

```shell
west build -b nrf9160dk_nrf9160ns && west flash
```

If you connect to the serial monitor you can observe the outputs from the Ztest framework.


## Possible improvements and special notes

* You can see that in order to compile flash driver the specific Kconfig settings need to be set.
* Devicetree overlay currently uses wrong compatible label.
I did not yet found a way to include a trivial label of my own.
According to the Zephyr documentation on devicetree bindings it should be sufficient to create a `dts/bindings` folder with specific bindings yaml file. 
That yaml file defines actual required properties of the device.
* Unlocking of blocking bits of the status register is not implemented.
It seems that this not needed as everything works as expected.
As long the **WP** and **HOLD** lines are kept high we should be able to communicate with the flash normally.
* We are not yet completely satisfied with the structure of the project.
Ideally we should follow general Zephyr structure with folders `drivers`, `tests` and `samples` (if needed).
That means that the current main file should actually be in `testing/flash` folder, and it should be aware of the driver.
I did not go down this route as I had problems with running the test automatically with `sanitycheck` script.
I think that `testcase.yaml` file was not setup correctly, another yaml file might also be needed.

Commit message:

Working example both for nrf91 and nrf528111

README.md, after:

# Zepyhr SPi flash driver for EN25QH32B-104HIP2C flash chip

This repo is an example of flash driver that uses public Zephyr flash API.


## Compiling and running the main.c file

To compile and run the code run below command from the root directory of the project:

```shell
west build -b nrf9160dk_nrf9160ns && west flash
```
or
```shell
west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf52811 && west flash
```
If using nrf52811 microcontroller make sure that you commented out below two lines in file found in ncs folder: 
`ncs/zephyr/boards/arm/nrf52840dk_nrf52811`.
If you don't do that the reset pin of nrf52811 will not work properly.

```
# Copyright (c) 2019 Nordic Semiconductor ASA

# SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

# The nrf52840dk_nrf52811 board mirrors the nRF52840 DK hardware. This
# needs to be considered by certain system initialization functionality
# residing in system_nrf52811.c and SoC dependent routines in nrfx_coredep.h.
# zephyr_compile_definitions(DEVELOP_IN_NRF52840)
# zephyr_compile_definitions(NRFX_COREDEP_DELAY_US_LOOP_CYCLES=3)
```



If you connect to the serial monitor you can observe the outputs from the Ztest framework.


## Possible improvements and special notes

* You can see that in order to compile flash driver the specific Kconfig settings need to be set.
* Devicetree overlay currently uses wrong compatible label.
I did not yet found a way to include a trivial label of my own.
According to the Zephyr documentation on devicetree bindings it should be sufficient to create a `dts/bindings` folder with specific bindings yaml file. 
That yaml file defines actual required properties of the device.
* Unlocking of blocking bits of the status register is not implemented.
It seems that this not needed as everything works as expected.
As long the **WP** and **HOLD** lines are kept high we should be able to communicate with the flash normally.
* We are not yet completely satisfied with the structure of the project.
Ideally we should follow general Zephyr structure with folders `drivers`, `tests` and `samples` (if needed).
That means that the current main file should actually be in `testing/flash` folder, and it should be aware of the driver.
I did not go down this route as I had problems with running the test automatically with `sanitycheck` script.
I think that `testcase.yaml` file was not setup correctly, another yaml file might also be needed.
